---
layout: post
title: "Reviewing 2024"
date: 2025-01-01
categories: blog
description: "A look back at a transformative year. With experiences from startup life, hands-on 3D work to moving cities and rebalancing priorities. 2024 brought growth, learnings, and new beginnings as I plan a more intentional path into 2025."
---

2024 was a year of transformation for me — my first full year of working full-time, filled with challenges, growth, and plenty of lessons along the way. Time to look back on the past year while preparing for the coming one. 

In January I moved to a small town near Munich and started my role as a Technical 3D artist at INYO and from then on the pace of work accelerated rapidly.

I learned a lot: refining my skills in 3D visualizations for real-world applications, navigating the dynamics of working at a start-up (it’s all about money and productive outcomes), collaborating successfully with multidisciplinary teams, and explaining my area of expertise to colleagues from different fields. I also gained insight into how cars and autonomous driving works, improved my task management skills, and even learned how to build a car (I have changed the break fluid on the INYO CAB so many times I’ve lost count). On top of that I mastered the art of packing light for long work trips and picked up so many other things along the way.

I really dove deep into so many areas and got to meet a lot of talented and inspiring people. This really motivated me and I am very grateful for opportunities I have at INYO (if you read this, thanks for the trust Marcus!!).

At the same time I realized that while working a lot, building and creating new things can be rewarding, but it’s also very important to not letting your identity be solely defined by your work. The long hours and seemingly never ending to-do list with tasks that are interesting but only partly igniting “passion” took a toll on my mental health. 

I’ve already made some changes to address this: I transitioned to part-time freelance work, moved back to Berlin, and focused on passion projects outside of work. This includes designing furniture for my flat, setting up this website, and diving into web design and digital twins — areas I am eager to explore more deeply.

In 2025, I plan to deepen my expertise in digital twins, interactive design and all things 3D, while prioritizing personal projects that align with my values and goals. Balancing passion-driven work with sustainable and creative practices for my mental health is a key objective! 

This year was interesting and I grew a lot. Let’s continue with this momentum into 2025 and focus on what sparks joy and truly matters! 

Have a great year everyone.